updates how to run temporal CLI (#1933)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/clusters/quick-install.md

---
id: quick-install
title: How to install a Temporal Cluster quickly for testing and local development
sidebar_label: Run a development Cluster
description: There are four ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster.
---

> The following section describes how to deploy your [Temporal Clusters](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) locally so that you can use and interact with the [Temporal Client](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-client) APIs and [tctl](/tctl-v1) commands to test and develop applications.

Reviewer: Do we want to replace `tctl` with `the CLI here?

Reviewer: Might want to mention the UI as another method of interaction

> **For information on deploying a [production environment](/server/production-deployment), see the [Temporal Cloud](/cloud) documentation.**

Reviewer 2: This should link to the deployment guide - "/cluster-deployment-guide"

> **For information on deploying a [production environment](/server/production-deployment), see the [Temporal Cloud](/cloud) documentation.**

Reviewer: I think we should direct users either to deploy self hosted or cloud instead of only cloud.

> ### Temporal CLI

Reviewer 2: do we need a header for the option now?

If we are going all in on this as the dev option - then we can even change the title - (not the id) and we could drop this extra header.

Just something to think about :)

Temporal CLI is a distribution of Temporal that runs as a single process with zero runtime dependencies.
It supports persistence to disk and in-memory mode through SQLite.

**Prerequisites**

> The Temporal CLI requires [Go 1.19 or later](https://go.dev/dl/).

Reviewer: Not true

> **Build and start the Temporal CLI**

Reviewer: No need to build it.

The following steps start and run a Temporal Cluster.

> 1. Choose one of the following install methods.

Reviewer: This needs a tab per OS.

Reviewer: And mention Windows installation too please.

> 1. Choose one of the following install methods.

Reviewer: Can we have a tab per OS?

Mac options:
1. brew install temporal
2. curl | sh
3. download a release, extract and put in PATH

Linux:
2 and 3

Windows:
2 and 3

Reviewer: Bonus points if we can make the tab for your OS active automatically.

>    1. Install the Temporal CLI with Homebrew.

Reviewer 2: Do we want an ordered list here?
Seems more of an unordered list thing

   1. curl
   ```bash
   curl -sSf https://temporal.download/cli.sh | sh
   ```
   2. Homebrew
   ```bash
   brew install temporal
   ```
2. Start Temporal Server by using the `start-dev` command.
   ```bash
   temporal server start-dev
   ```

> To customize the pre-registered [Namespace Name](/namespaces), start the server with the `--namespace` command.

Reviewer: Which pre-registered namespace?

> To customize the [Namespace Name](/namespaces), start the server with the `--namespace` command.

Reviewer: You're missing a sentence here mentioning that by default the "default" namespace is created, otherwise this comes out of context.

You can copy some more useful information from the cli's README: https://github.com/temporalio/cli/

```bash
temporal server start-dev --namespace your-custom-namespace
```

> **Results**: You should have Temporal Cluster running at `http://127.0.0.1:7233` and the Temporal Web UI at [`http://127.0.0.1:8233`](http://127.0.0.1:8233/).

Reviewer: The flow here is a bit weird.

I'd lean more on the CLI readme.

Reviewer: > At this point you should have a server running on localhost:7233 and a web interface at http://localhost:8233/.

And this should go after the first mention of the start command.

<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

- Install the Temporal CLI with cURL.

  ```bash
  curl -sSf https://temporal.download/cli.sh | sh
  ```

- Install the Temporal CLI from CDN.
  1. Select the platform and architecture needed.
     - <a href="https://temporal.download/cli/archive/latest?platform=linux&arch=amd64">Download for Linux amd64</a>
     - <a href="https://temporal.download/cli/archive/latest?platform=linux&arch=arm64">Download for Linux arm64</a>
  2. Extract the downloaded archive.
  3. Add the `temporal` binary to your PATH.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows" label="Windows">

- Install the Temporal CLI from CDN.
  1. Select the platform and architecture needed and download the binary.
     - <a href="https://temporal.download/cli/archive/latest?platform=windows&arch=amd64">Download for Windows amd64</a>
     - <a href="https://temporal.download/cli/archive/latest?platform=windows&arch=arm64">Download for Windows arm64</a>
  2. Extract the downloaded archive.
  3. Add the `temporal.exe` binary to your PATH.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Start the Temporal Server**

Start Temporal Server by using the `start-dev` command.

```bash
temporal server start-dev
```

> This command uses the default [Namespace Name](/namespaces), `default`, to start and connect to the Temporal Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command automatically starts the UI, creates the default [Namespace](/namespaces), and uses an in-memory database.
```

To connect to the Temporal Server with a custom Namespace Name, use the `--namespace` command.

```bash
temporal server start-dev --namespace your-custom-namespace
```

> **Results**: You should have access to the Temporal Server running at `http://127.0.0.1:7233` and the Temporal Web UI at [`http://127.0.0.1:8233`](http://127.0.0.1:8233/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal Server should be available and on `localhost:7233` and the Temporal Web UI access at [`http://localhost:8233`](http://localhost:8233/).
```

Reviewer: Actually, I have a different idea here.
